Ultrasonic Vision for th Visually Impaired

At least 2.2 billion people worldwide suffer from blindness or visual impairment.1 These conditions are estimated to be four times more prevalent for low and middle income regions and the most prevalent in developing countries where conditions such as malnutrition, lack of sanitation, and inadequate health services result in a high incidence of eye disease.2 Visual impairment and blindness can be detrimental in developing countries that lack resources to integrate blind members into society. Some previous efforts to reduce the occurrence of blindness in third world countries include preventative screening programs like the eye-care services assessment tool implemented by the World Health Organization. Additionally, blindness caused by cataracts can be treated through ophthalmic surgeries, and several organizations like the Himalayan Cataract Project have corrected cataracts in over 800,000 people.3 However, fewer measures have been taken to provide wide-spread support for those who are either untreatable with cataract surgery, have chronic visual impairment, or those who are waiting to receive surgery. With our device, we aim to design a cost-effective, easy to use method for blind and visually impaired people to be able to detect the location of nearby objects. We are developing a haptic-feedback navigational system that utilizes ultrasonic sensors and a Bluetooth system.


Our device is an affordable system that consists of a belt and glasses for the detection of objects within approximately 2 m to the lower body and upper body respectively. In an effort to improve the existing condition of blindness in developing communities, our system can be used in all environments without requiring connectivity to a Wi-Fi network. As it is powered by simple batteries, it requires minimal repairs and updates, and it can be worn by virtually anyone due to its adjustable features.
